README.md, before:

# Code Name Jeeves 
Zipfian Final Project

General idea idea is to get my computer to do something smart. Narrowed down to have my computer classify incoming emails that need a meeting location defined.

------------

To Do:

- Improve features
    - Has date in text body
    - combine subject with body words (also run with separate models)
    - Remove certain words that are skewing the results - enable idf : inverse doc frequency reweighting? but does this impact meeting
        - my name (so it is more abstract)


- Closing loop - check into adding time.sleep and make sure gmail object working with script abstraction


- Improve models
    - Improve script on how multiple models are run and results shown
        - Look at EC2 to help run
    - Work on tuning parameters - look at other ways to optimize alpha for naive bayes
    - Find an output for comparison of models
        - plot the error (or accuracy) of the classifier as the number of training examples increases (learning curves) (use regularization sprint)
    - Work on train/test split and applying k-folds / stratified


As Time Permits:
- Look at pulling in other data sources
- Update raw data structure to track where emails are from

- Other feature ideas / customization
    - Python NLP / Regex library
    - length of thread (3+)
    - # email from an email address / new or not
    - email address in contacts or on Linkedin...
- Run more EDA


- Continue to look at dimensionality reduction approaches
- Turn pipeline sections into classes/objects

- Setup code for my computer to "say" the classification outcome whent its true
- Find way to stream in new email



Visualization Ideas:
- map words and features to coefficients
- visualize dominant coeef - % positive emails has this dominant cooef

---------------
Issues:
- Limited data for significant enough results (potential for overfitting and/or low accuracy)
- Duplication of data where there is a row per email no matter if its in a thread and emails typically contain duplications of the content from previous emails
    - should just pick one email out of  thread and one that has the latest date
    - Granted this is allowing resampling of the data
- Facet Plot seems to extreme for words. Too many features and what value is there plotting features against features


- Resolved Anaconda, virtualenv and ipython issues
- Resolved science packages work in virtualenv

---------------
Data:

Stored in Postgres DB

~800+ emails total
~120 emails meet target conditions (may be smaller based on thread emails)

Raw Data:
- Message ID (message_id) = string / primary key
- Thread ID (thread_id) = string
- To (to_email) = string
- From (from_email) = string
- CC (cc) = string
- Date Sent (date) = timestamp
- Subject (subject) = string
- Starred Email (starred) = boolean (true meanss its starred)
- Message Body (body) = text
- Needs Location (target) = boolean (true needs a meeting location and based on labels 'Jeeves' & 'Starred')

---------------
Completed:
- Setup Twilio text message structure for results
- Picked Gmail package to pull gmail and applied
- Labeled messages that meet conditions / classify true & determined how to designate results in raw data database (target column)
- Built & rebuilt Postgres table
- Data munged and loaded raw data into Postgres
- Pulled in science packages for virtualenv (resolved matplotlib issues after some experimenting with creating symbolic links to anaconda)
- Figured out how to pull postgres into pandas
- Ran initial EDA and confirmed dataset small as well as ways to consider subsetting. Also found a few issues with the data like empty cells.
- Started vectorization and began dimensionality reduction 
- Realized dimensionality not as valuable as thought but will keep it as back pocket item
- Built initial classification models (review and leverage work from nlp project)
    - Logistic Regression & Naive Bayes
    - Built classification model analysis with accuracy, roc plot, etc.
- Built out code to fetch new email, check email and send text if true condition met - need to test
- Built out alternative classification models: Random Forest, Gradient Boost, Ada Boost and SVC. Gradient Boost gave best results with plain out of the box
- Applied grid search which improved Logistic Regression and Multinomial NB. 
- Applied grid search to Random Forest and SVC. SVC had the best result. Gradient Boost is taking too long to run right now.
- Closed the loop and proved to take in an email classify and send a text
- Cleaned up code / streamlined functions and connections between scrips.
- Improved feature set with:
    - stemming
    - n-grams up to 3
    - lowercase
    - use_idf
    - normalizing the data
    - word shape adjustment



---------------
Stuff:
- Think of this project similar to spam filters where a false positive (email sent that needs a location) is more acceptible than a false negative (email not sent that needs a location)

- To start ngrok use:
    ./ngrok 80

- Applied cPickle to save models because fast and commone solution. Sklearn has joblib which is similar and good for big data

- python sendmail - send an email

Commit message:

Updated with priorities for the morning which are to reload the data and expand the table in case more data sources are added. Additionally, run through the pipeline and verify teh classification results and how to interpret. Using idf allows reweighting so words like my name get pushed to zero in priority; thus, no need to remove from the corpus.

README.md, after:

# Code Name Jeeves 
Zipfian Final Project

General idea idea is to get my computer to do something smart. Narrowed down to have my computer classify incoming emails that need a meeting location defined.

------------

To Do:

- Confirm the model results and how to handle the classification

- reload the raw data to pull out dates and repeated script

- Improve features
    - Has date in text body
    - combine subject with body words (also run with separate models)


- Closing loop - check into adding time.sleep and make sure gmail object working with script abstraction


- Improve models
    - Improve script on how multiple models are run and results shown
        - Look at EC2 to help run
    - Work on tuning parameters - look at other ways to optimize alpha for naive bayes
    - Find an output for comparison of models
        - plot the error (or accuracy) of the classifier as the number of training examples increases (learning curves) (use regularization sprint)
    - Work on train/test split and applying k-folds / stratified


As Time Permits:
- Look at pulling in other data sources
- Update raw data structure to track where emails are from

- Other feature ideas / customization
    - Python NLP / Regex library
    - length of thread (3+)
    - # email from an email address / new or not
    - email address in contacts or on Linkedin...
- Run more EDA


- Continue to look at dimensionality reduction approaches
- Turn pipeline sections into classes/objects

- Setup code for my computer to "say" the classification outcome whent its true
- Find way to stream in new email



Visualization Ideas:
- map words and features to coefficients
- visualize dominant coeef - % positive emails has this dominant cooef

---------------
Issues:
- Limited data for significant enough results (potential for overfitting and/or low accuracy)
- Duplication of data where there is a row per email no matter if its in a thread and emails typically contain duplications of the content from previous emails
    - should just pick one email out of  thread and one that has the latest date
    - Granted this is allowing resampling of the data
- Facet Plot seems to extreme for words. Too many features and what value is there plotting features against features


- Resolved Anaconda, virtualenv and ipython issues
- Resolved science packages work in virtualenv

---------------
Data:

Stored in Postgres DB

~800+ emails total
~120 emails meet target conditions (may be smaller based on thread emails)

Raw Data:
- Message ID (message_id) = string / primary key
- Thread ID (thread_id) = string
- To (to_email) = string
- From (from_email) = string
- CC (cc) = string
- Date Sent (date) = timestamp
- Subject (subject) = string
- Starred Email (starred) = boolean (true meanss its starred)
- Message Body (body) = text
- Needs Location (target) = boolean (true needs a meeting location and based on labels 'Jeeves' & 'Starred')

---------------
Completed:
- Setup Twilio text message structure for results
- Picked Gmail package to pull gmail and applied
- Labeled messages that meet conditions / classify true & determined how to designate results in raw data database (target column)
- Built & rebuilt Postgres table
- Data munged and loaded raw data into Postgres
- Pulled in science packages for virtualenv (resolved matplotlib issues after some experimenting with creating symbolic links to anaconda)
- Figured out how to pull postgres into pandas
- Ran initial EDA and confirmed dataset small as well as ways to consider subsetting. Also found a few issues with the data like empty cells.
- Started vectorization and began dimensionality reduction 
- Realized dimensionality not as valuable as thought but will keep it as back pocket item
- Built initial classification models (review and leverage work from nlp project)
    - Logistic Regression & Naive Bayes
    - Built classification model analysis with accuracy, roc plot, etc.
- Built out code to fetch new email, check email and send text if true condition met - need to test
- Built out alternative classification models: Random Forest, Gradient Boost, Ada Boost and SVC. Gradient Boost gave best results with plain out of the box
- Applied grid search which improved Logistic Regression and Multinomial NB. 
- Applied grid search to Random Forest and SVC. SVC had the best result. Gradient Boost is taking too long to run right now.
- Closed the loop and proved to take in an email classify and send a text
- Cleaned up code / streamlined functions and connections between scrips.
- Improved feature set with:
    - stemming
    - n-grams up to 3
    - lowercase
    - use_idf
    - normalizing the data
    - word shape adjustment
    - Using use_idf drops the values on words like my name that show up across the corpus


---------------
Stuff:
- Think of this project similar to spam filters where a false positive (email sent that needs a location) is more acceptible than a false negative (email not sent that needs a location)

- To start ngrok use:
    ./ngrok 80

- Applied cPickle to save models because fast and commone solution. Sklearn has joblib which is similar and good for big data

- python sendmail - send an email
